A rumor about the possible emergence of new sub-variant of Omicron leading to new wave of infections caused Montmorillonite powder to be sold out across China. The person who reportedly started the rumor and suggested the use of Montmorillonite powder to guard against infection and treat COVID-19 cases, however, said that he had no medical background and hadn't expected his speculation to go viral online. That such rumors will elicit such a response is natural because the easing of the prevention and control measures and the sharp increase in infections have left many Chinese people worried about the consequences of another wave of novel coronavirus infections. Given the difficulty in accessing medical care, most people have to get the necessary information on the sub-variants of Omicron and arrange for treatment on their own. Thus the internet is full of information on how to improve immunity, what medicines to buy and how to treat the ill. Taking advantage of this fact, some people and marketing entities have been spreading disinformation in the name of providing "inside information" to sell their products and make profit. Even if such a piece of information is not a rumor, there is no guarantee that it's not a campaign to hype up the profile of some social media platform account holder. Such disinformation may not only mislead the public but also cause chaos in the market and society as a whole. So, strict measures should be taken to deal with rumormongers and disseminators of fake news because of the wide-ranging impacts of their actions on the physical and mental health of the people. First, timely detection of false information is necessary to prevent people from spreading more disinformation and rumors. There is also a need to strengthen the supervision of the internet and establish an effective monitoring mechanism using advanced technology to quickly identify false information and rumors, pinpoint the source of such information as soon as possible. And for the illegal act of fabricating and spreading rumors which disrupt public order, the suspects should be investigated according to law. The Public Security Administration Punishment Law stipulates that those who spread rumors and disrupt public order should be subject to administrative detention. They could also be fined. The Criminal Law, on its part, stipulates that anyone fabricating false stories and disseminating them through information or social media platforms, or a person knowingly disseminating false information that seriously disrupts the social order should be investigated for criminal responsibility in accordance with the law. Hence, in accordance with the relevant laws, the authorities should create a clean social network environment by establishing an effective detection and punishment mechanism. Second, relevant government and professional departments should timely release authoritative and useful information to shrink the space for false information to breed. Practice shows that the more comprehensive, symmetrical and targeted the information on pandemic prevention and COVID-19 treatment is, the more the public will understand the threats the virus and its variants and sub-variants pose, and how to safeguard against and get treated for COVID-19. Relevant government departments, centers for disease control and prevention, hospitals and other departments should understand why people worry, and release relevant information in a timely, accurate and comprehensive manner based on social needs. In particular, they should provide targeted, authoritative and detailed response plans, and warn people against falling prey to false information. It is also necessary to establish public consultation channels to provide smooth, fast, high-quality and convenient consultation services for the people. Third, the authorities should also take measures to improve people's knowledge of science and teach/train them to take informed decisions during emergencies, so as to reduce the effects of false information. For all kinds of information, especially those online, if the public blindly believes them, false information and rumors will flourish. To judge whether a piece of information on social media is true or false, it is necessary to check the source of the information and the official response to it, and check its veracity using different means. For a piece of information whose authenticity cannot be determined, one should forward it to a friend or another user with a note of caution to prevent a possible rumor from going viral. And if a user finds a piece of information to be false or a rumor, he or she should never forward it to another person and warn family and friends to not believe in it while reporting the matter to platforms or the authorities to block its spread. The author is a professor at School of Law-based Government, China University of Political Science and Law. The views don't necessarily represent those of China Daily.