Cao Hehuai and Ke Dongfeng, both village doctors in Nanchang, Jiangxi province, have specially prepared medicines to treat fever, cold and diarrhea as the area braces for potential COVID-19 cases during the Spring Festival holiday. Since 1994, the husband and wife team has been working as the only staff members of a clinic in the village of Shangban. In recent weeks, the couple and their small clinic have become a lifeline for about 3,000 villagers amid a surge of COVID-19 cases. "We have weathered the initial wave of infections, with about 90 percent of villagers getting infected," said Cao, 51. "We saw about 80 to 100 patients each day, mainly people with sudden fevers. "The biggest problem we had then was a shortage of medicines, so we are better prepared this time," he added. They have also taken steps to ensure that critically ill patients can be transported to hospitals in a timely manner. Village doctors, who are deemed as frontline health guards, know their fellow villagers well and play a pivotal role in sending severe cases to large hospitals for intensive medical care. Experts said that since 80 percent of medical resources in China are in urban areas, the collaboration model helps optimize the allocation of such resources and better ensures the health of rural residents at a time when COVID-19 cases are surging. With their decades of experience, Cao and Ke have been doing well in their battle against the pandemic. With strong knowledge about the health status of the villagers, they have provided care for those who are dealing with chronic diseases. "In recent years, we have been regularly paying visits to poor villagers and people over age 60," Cao explained. "Some have high blood pressure, diabetes, chronic cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease. We show them how to take their medication and what symptoms to watch out for." For nearly 30 years, the couple have been working almost every day. In the small clinic, which covers about 150 square meters, they treat most common diseases, such as fever and stomachaches, and conduct routine blood tests, blood sugar tests, urine tests and electrocardiograms. They receive an annual subsidy of about 30,000 yuan ($4,422) for their work. The couple always waive the villagers' medical fees and sell medicines at a low price. After decades of working in the village, they are treated like family members by the villagers. "Our daughter, who is a primary school teacher, and our son, a college student, respect us for working as village doctors. We have strong emotional connections with the villagers," Cao said. "I hope that I can stay longer at this post and that all the villagers will lead healthier lives."