President Xi Jinping on Friday stressed the importance of passing on the "ironclad" China-Cambodia friendship through successive generations and vowed to work with the neighboring country to bring more benefits to the Cambodian people through jointly building a community with a shared future. Xi made the remarks when he and his wife, Peng Liyuan, met with Cambodian King Norodom Sihamoni and Queen Mother Norodom Monineath Sihanouk at the Diaoyutai State Guesthouse in Beijing. Xi hailed the bilateral friendship for withstanding international vicissitudes and growing even stronger over the past 65 years since the establishment of diplomatic ties, saying that China-Cambodia relations have become a model of state-to-state relations. As witnesses to China's reform and development, King Sihamoni and Queen Mother Monineath always care about China's development and are good friends of the Chinese people, he said. In 2020, Xi awarded Queen Mother Monineath the Friendship Medal of the People's Republic of China, for her special contributions to promoting China-Cambodia friendship. The president said that as the Communist Party of China is uniting and leading the Chinese people in advancing great national rejuvenation, China is willing to build a "diamond hexagon" cooperation framework with Cambodia, help develop its industrial and agricultural sectors and support the Southeast Asian nation's efforts to improve people's livelihoods. King Sihamoni and Queen Mother Monineath, who are in Beijing for physical checkups and rest, expressed gratitude for China's considerate reception and long-term support and assistance. They said they felt pleased about China's achievements. Cambodia appreciates the Belt and Road Initiative and the vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind that Xi has proposed, and is ready to work with China in deepening exchanges and cooperation in all fields to carry forward this traditional friendship, they said. King Sihamoni is the son of Cambodian King Father Norodom Sihanouk, who lived in China for more than 40 years before passing away in Beijing in 2012. The late king forged and cultivated China-Cambodia friendship with the older generation of Chinese leaders. The Cambodian King has his health checked twice a year by doctors in China. mojingxi@chinadaily.com.cn