President Xi Jinping underlined the importance of promoting mutual learning between civilizations as he extended congratulations over the founding of the Center of Chinese and Greek Ancient Civilizations, saying such exchanges can help solve prominent contradictions and problems facing mankind. In his letter replying to Greek scholars, which was published on Tuesday, Xi hailed the long history of Chinese civilization and the profound influence of the ancient Greek civilization. More than 2,000 years ago, the two ancient civilizations shone brightly in Asia and Europe, jointly making a fundamental contribution to the evolution of human civilization, he said. Xi said it is of great historical and contemporary significance for the two countries to establish the center, which is committed to promoting exchanges and mutual learning between the two civilizations and advancing the development of civilizations of various countries. Noting that various nations have created civilizations that together form a colorful garden of human civilization, Xi said that different civilizations also serve as an underlying guide to the survival and development of nations. To promote the development of human society and jointly build a community with a shared future for mankind, it is important to understand and grasp the age-old origins and rich contents of different civilizations, and let the essence of all civilizations benefit the present generation and all mankind, he said. Xi said he believes that the new center will certainly make a great contribution in this regard. The president also said that, as history has proved, human civilization can continue to thrive and prosper by adhering to inclusiveness and openness. The values contained in the Chinese and Greek civilizations, as well as their outlooks on the world, universe, life, science and culture, are profound and timeless, and are sure to provide important guidance for mankind to solve the problems of the times and promote the building of a community with a shared future, Xi said. The center, which was launched on Monday at the University of Athens, is a move to implement the consensus reached during Xi's state visit to Greece in 2019. Five Greek scholars, including Stelios Virvidakis, a professor at the University of Athens, recently wrote a letter to Xi in which they expressed at great length their high recognition of the concept advocated by Xi in terms of civilization and introduced to him preparations and development plans for the center.